these 10 books are must reads if you
want to be a successful
entrepreneur hey my name is shelene
Johnson welcome to this edition of build
your tribe today I'm going to share with
you 10 books in a specific order that I
think are going to make a huge
difference for you if you want to kill
it in business and maybe you are already
killing it in business these are books
many of which I revisit all of which I
highly recommend to anyone who wants to
grow their business and I'd like to with
the first one let's get right to it the
magic of thinking big this is a book
that you can read even if you don't want
to be an entrepreneur it really does
just encourage the reader and how
specifically to grow your confidence how
to build self-belief what it means to
continually improve yourself and that's
one of the ways that you are able to to
grow in terms of your confidence it
talks about the importance of taking
initiative and having the confidence to
take calculated risks I mean let's face
it if you want to be successful as an
entrepreneur you have to be okay with
learning things which means you probably
some people call it failing but they
experiments they are lessons to be
learned and the only way you're going to
get better the only way you're going to
be more successful is if you have the
courage to know like yeah this might not
work out but I I need to figure it out
and the only way I'm going to figure it
out is by taking that risk that's why I
think this is the first book you need to
start with because that's a mindset you
have to own if you're going to be
successful in business the second book I
like to suggest you read is called ready
fire aim and I think the title probably
gives away the premise of the book which
is they've got to stop focusing on
Preparation and I I literally want every
one of my students and you know we've
got students in the marketing impact
Academy specifically who I'm speaking to
they're the ones who they have they just
keep learning and taking more than many
courses and preparing and prepping and
asking questions but they're they just
never fire like they're spending so much
time making sure that they've got the
right shot that they're never taking the
shot this book really will help break
that way of thinking for you helps you
to understand how important it is to
like you've got to take action it also
goes beyond that and talks about like
sales and marketing and how businesses
are often in different stages and the
three stages of a business that he talks
about and this is very interesting so if
you are already an entrepreneur I want
you to identify what stage you believe
you're in right now so the first stage
talks about is infancy and in the
infancy stage that's when you're you
know you've already figured out what is
your selling but you're figuring out
specifically what do the sales and
marketing need to look like the second
stage of any business he calls the
Adolescent stage and this is where
you're you figured out the sales and
marketing you know what you're selling
and now you're setting up systems you're
setting up the people you're learning
how to delegate all of those things the
growing up stage is when you're learning
how to scale and then the final stage is
the maturity stage which is where he
says you're basically maintaining your
business and you're innovating I would
say that for quite a few of our
businesses I would say that we're kind
of in the Adolescent stage where we're
learning how to scale it and learning
how to scale it has everything to do
with people and lastly the overall
premise of this book is like stop
overthinking this yes you need a
strategic plan yes you need to do some
thinking about these things yes you need
to take calculated risk but more than
anything you you just you need to take
action next would recommend the 4our
work week by Tim Ferris this book was so
far ahead of its time it's not even
funny and I do recall picking up that
book when everybody was talking about it
and I do this often when I hear like
everybody talking about a book I become
do you do this I become like almost
skeptical like uh it's going to be so
dumb and I remember thinking that the
title was total like clickbait and
wanting to read the book and pick it
apart but when I read the book I was
like mind blown it really did shift the
way that I had been thinking prior which
was kind of like an old school
entrepreneurship which maybe you have
where you believe well I'm I'm not
making any money right now so the way
that I can be profitable the way that I
can make money is by learning how to do
these things myself and then I don't
have to hire someone to teach me how to
do it I don't have to hire someone to do
this thing if I can learn how to do it
myself and that makes me resourceful and
that makes me Frugal and that me means
my business will be profitable this book
changed
the way I think about that
forever and it was so far ahead of his
time I don't even know what year it was
written I'll figure that out for you but
it really forecasted what we now all
experience today which is a virtual team
I mean Tim talks about this idea of like
you you want to create a vision for
yourself of like what your rich life
would look like which is a concept that
a lot of other authors have since you
know picked up on and he talks about how
like you know in the future like no
one's going to retire you're going to
live a life that feels like you're in
retirement but if you love what you're
doing you're going to still want to do
it and still be creating and be
successful but like you're going to live
your life and travel and have these
incredible experiences he talks about
how specifically you need to delegate
like he literally goes to the math so
that you understand like I'm being an
idiot not delegating these things I
can't afford not to do these things he
talks about how important it is to kind
of like free yourself from a physical
office space and I just think about like
today in 2023 how how ahead of its time
that book was like our entire team now
we don't have a headquarters anymore you
know just even a couple years ago we did
and now we've just been liberated and
we've liberated our team too so that
they can work from anywhere they can
travel and continue to have these wildly
fun incredible experiences while also
being a part of our virtual team in fact
I want to take this moment to say a
shout out to the two guys who I love who
edit these videos for us noi and Paul
we're going to put their pictures in
right here but like the fact that we
have people in so many different
countries and so many different time
zones and the team is so cohesive and
supportive of each other and so much of
this was outlined in the 4-Hour Work
week I want to recommend absolutely
every single book ever written by John
Maxwell in my opinion I just think he's
like an unbelievable leader but one of
the best books I can recommend to you
from him I mean there's so many but I
want to recommend today good leaders ask
great questions and the reason why I
recommend this book is because he
specifically talks about how
communication is everything when you're
a leader and I think a lot of us as
entrepreneurs like we've got brilliant
ideas or we've come up with something
really creative or we're great at social
media and we're great at being solo
preneurs but you're not going to have
the type of success the type of Freedom
that you want without a team and you're
not going to be successful with a team
unless you really learn how to improve
your communication skills and so John
really lays out specifically what that
looks like and how leaders have to
become much more open-minded I think a
lot of us believe like as Leaders we
need to be firm we need to be fair of
course but like we need to be a little
bit tougher we need to be okay with
confrontation we need to be okay with
managing people and these things are all
true but he talks about how the key to
strong leadership and a strong team is
building rapport
and you can't have Rapport without
information so he talks about the
specific skills that leaders need to
have to build curiosity and how to ask
the right kinds of questions how to get
the right kind of information before
making a decision how to make decisions
based on that information and how you
can improve your decision-making
abilities by learning how to ask great
questions once you've got a team and
you're working on your leadership that's
why I'm going to recommend this next
level of book and especially if you do
already have a team read this book
before you have the dysfunctions it's
called the five dysfunctions of teams by
Patrick leion gosh I hope I said his
name correctly he's got a great podcast
too I think it's called something table
I'll figure it out anyways in this book
he really talks about how to handle it
when there's a problem on your team and
I think this is again a book to read
proactively so that you don't experience
these problems he talks about why most
teams struggle is because there's this
absence of trust because they fear conf
right like no one wants to step on
anyone else's toes and if you're worried
about stepping on someone's toes it's
because you don't trust that person like
with your own family you don't worry
about stepping on anyone's toes because
there's a level of trust there there's a
level of knowing each other and this
book was really so helpful for us when
we went through a period of about a
two-year process where we just had so
many problems within our team we had so
many of the wrong people on our team and
this book really helped me to identify a
lot of those problems and to to fix them
and once I learned how to identify these
dysfunctions it's also help me to make
much better hires and to Pivot and
adjust once we do bring someone on the
team and maybe things aren't aren't
going the right direction in this book
he talks about the importance of
everyone having commitment to the
decisions like and that the decisions
need to be made collectively as a team
like bringing everybody into the process
how to create accountability so that
people are not just holding themselves
accountable but they're holding their
teammates accountable as well and how
you need to pay attention to the results
of the team not just like okay H how did
I do am I doing my job that's all I need
to care about like no everyone needs to
care about how everyone else is
performing because you're like a family
and so anyways I think that's a great
book He's written a few others I think
are exceptional as
always all right guys we're going to
take a quick break for me to tell you
about something I I don't I don't have
affiliate code I'm going to get an
affiliate code but like I just bought
this thing cuz I saw it advertised on
Instagram this is a magnet and so you
always have your water bottle with you
and you you always need content right
cuz you're an entrepreneur so this water
bottle you just put your phone on it it
works like a tripod it's amazing and
it's a really good water bottle too it's
called a
Ringo and I'm so mad because I invented
this in my head but I never took it to
Market they obviously did they beat me
to it but I just think it's brilliant
and I had to make sure I was hydrated
before I came across a super thirsty for
your subscribe but I am I am very
thirsty for your subscribe so help a
girl out help Brock and I out please
take a moment and subscribe to the
channel even cooler if you were to share
like just take a screenshot of the video
while you're watching on YouTube and and
hit us up on Instagram let us know that
you listened and you subscribed the next
book I want to talk to you about because
we're talking about teams right and
we're talking about people and once we
start talking about people we have to
talk about profits because for most of
us our greatest expenditure is going to
be that which we are paying our quality
team members so when you're looking at
profitability you have to also look at
your people this book is called the nobs
ruthless management of people and
profits and it is by Dan Kennedy he's
also written a bunch of great books I
love his no BS style like I I prefer
that get to the point and he does he
really tackles the common challenges
that leaders have when it comes to
managing our our people whether you have
a team of three or a team of 30 or 300
he talks about how you can improve
profitability by being a better people
manager by finding people who are really
motivated by understanding how you need
to be the person who helps resolve
conflict how to do decision- making how
to be better about your time management
and your team's time management because
if you're not able to manage your team's
time management then you lose
profitability it is this book is one of
the reasons why we at least at least
once a quarter we go through and we do a
time management assessment of everyone
who's on our team you know if we've got
somebody who's working supposedly
full-time hours and we're we're seeing
the work come in late we're seeing that
there's just a decrease in the
productivity we're constantly assessing
like okay you know things have changed
maybe there's new tools that they're
using maybe this person has more time
available now how can we better make use
of their time if this person is a team
player if they're you know really
valuable to us then they're going to
adapt accordingly and they're going to
be able to produce more in a shorter
period of time or maybe we find out in
some instances that we've got someone on
our team who's like doing too much and
they need to be their pay needs to be
increased or we need to bring on someone
to support them and the only way we know
that is by regularly doing an audit I
have to know like once a quarter because
technology changes that fast where are
you spending your time how much time are
you devoting to us on a daily basis how
can we better help you manage your time
and therefore your productivity because
that person's productivity affects our
bottom line which affects everybody's
bottom line next up is a classic it is
the 22 immutable laws of marketing and
it's crazy how much marketing has
changed in the last a couple of decades
but this book is still tried and true
this book talks about the importance of
positioning and there's been tons of
other marketing books that talk about
positioning is it called Blue Ocean I
mean there's there's just so many but I
think this is this is the classic in my
opinion and he really hammers home the
idea that you just make life so much
easier for you it is so much easier to
Market when you are the first as opposed
to competing with everybody else who's
doing something the book gives specific
Insight so you understand positioning
you understand what it means to
differentiate and how to stand out in a
really crowded or very comp comptitive
industry and because so many people
today as entrepreneurs are marketing
their own skills like you're marketing
that thing that you do better than
anybody else I think it just goes
without saying that you've got to read
expert Secrets by Russell
Brunson now I have to say that there are
people who are like devout fans like not
and not just fans like devotees of this
man and it's pretty brilliant the way
this book is written is interesting and
some people might even criticize it
because it does border I think on
creating this he calls it a culture but
it creates this I don't want to say
cult-like but you know he talks about
how like you really get this community
so believing in the mission that they
would like basically falling a sword for
you specifically though he talks about
how to identify and clarify your unique
message how to grow a loyal following
and I think it's brilliant when it comes
to the sales funnel Russell explains
something that we talk about in the
marketing impact Academy as we call it
the customer Journey he calls it the
value ladder the basic concept is that
once you have or once a potential
customer has identified you as the
expert who can help them solve their
problem that you make life so much
easier and so much more profitable as a
business if you give them a journey as
opposed to like saying like here's this
one product that solves all your
problems you create a ladder where it's
almost like they're stepping into the
next level and the next level and the
next level so that you're you're kind of
growing with them you're meeting them
where they are where they're just about
to get on the on-ramp right like they're
in first gear and you you're meeting
them as a beginner with a lower level
offer and then as they progress and now
they're in the slow lane now you're
giving them a little bit more advanced
offer with a more advanced price and as
they continue to develop as a customer
as they continue to develop their own
expertise you're giving them something
that's more advanced it doesn't mean it
has to be bigger it doesn't mean that it
has to be more complex but it means they
they're now ready for it and then this
customer is willing to pay top dollar
for that and it builds a very loyal
customer for Life another author who I
love everything I read by him is Donald
Miller and the most recent book that
I've enjoyed is called marketing made
simple and the reason why I'm going to
recommend this book from Donald Miller
is because it does give you a brief
summary of some of his other incredible
books he emphasizes the importance of
messaging which is kind of what Donald
Miller is known for and he talks about
his story brand framework which is
another great book but like I really
think with this book especially if you
get the audible the audible version if I
recall I I have both the physical and
the audible version but if I recall the
audible version has a lot of extras in
it and I've had many of my team members
those who focus on marketing read this
book or listen to this book I I love a
good audible he focuses on how you
identify y your customer's problem and
then you have to offer them a really
simple solution he talks about the role
of the website how that needs to be
super clear like it's very very specific
with regard to the sales funnels emails
and some very practical tips for your
marketing campaigns I highly recommend
the book and the last book I want to
recommend to you is a relatively new one
it blows my mind it's the100 million
leads book by Alex harosi first of all
the way this dude launched this book was
poetic I mean I've never seen anything
like it in my entire life I like this
book because I feel like it's a summary
of all the books I've just mentioned and
then some like he's the first person
I've heard give specific like again a
lot of the concepts you're going to be
like yes I I've heard this before but I
need to hear it this way um he's young
right like so he he's probably read all
the books I've just mentioned but he
also goes beyond that and he talks about
some things that I'm like I've never
heard anyone talk about about this and
this is what this is who I need to hear
from like specifically how to deal with
agencies the difference between a cold
Market a warm Market reaching people
that you know running paid ads how to
specifically identify your top lead
referrals like how are you getting leads
and then he goes through all the
different ways you can get leads and
kind of breaks it down like what's
involved in each one so that you as the
entrepreneur can decide like am I ready
to do this am I willing to do this and
what is involved in doing it what's
super cool about this book
and I will link to it all the books
below in my description but this book in
particular if I'm not mistaken you can
listen to the whole thing on his podcast
so I'll find that link and put it below
because I bought the book I bought the
physical book I was part of the whole
launch process I got all the uh bonuses
that went with it I got to watch the
whole thing live because I even that was
very fascinating never seen anyone do
anything like that and he also includes
a one-page advertising plan that's
pretty brilliant in general the whole
the whole thing like was fascinating let
me know if you would be interested in me
breaking down exactly the exact formula
that Alex Heros used to launch this book
it's remarkable yeah so let me know your
thoughts and if that's something you'd
like let us know below this episode in
the comments on YouTube and for those of
you who are watching on YouTube I'd like
to say thank you for being here Thanks
for liking this video thank you for
turning on your bell not ification so
you know when we upload a new video and
uh thank you for being here it is my
goal to be brief to be bright to make it
fun and then be done and we're
[Music]
done